Get price for date action in Nord Pool (#35682)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/nordpool.markdown

The `Exchange rate` sensor is not enabled by default.

> ## Custom actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Actions
```

### Get price for date

> As the integration entities only provides price information for the current date, use the custom action "Get price for date" to retrieve pricing information for the last two months up until tomorrow.
> 
> Providing the areas and currency are optional, and will use the integration configured if omitted.
> 
> See [examples](#examples) how to use in a trigger template sensor.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the integration entities only provides price information for the current date, use the action "Get price for date" to retrieve pricing information for the last two months up until tomorrow.

Providing the areas and currency are optional, and will use the integration configured if omitted.

See [examples](#examples) how to use it in a trigger template sensor.

```

{% note %}

> The public api only allows to see past pricing information up to 2 months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The public API only allows us to see past pricing information for up to 2 months.
```

> Tomorrow's prices are typically released around 13:00 CET, and therefore trying to get tomorrow's prices before that time will generate an error which needs to be considered in such use-case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tomorrow's prices are typically released around 13:00 CET, and trying to get them before that time will generate an error that needs to be considered in such a case.
```

```

{% endraw %}

Use a trigger template entity to see tomorrow's lowest price.

{% raw %}

```yaml
template:
  - trigger:
      - trigger: time_pattern
        minutes: /1
    action:
      - action: nordpool.get_prices_for_date
        data:
          config_entry: 1234567890A
          date: "{{ now().date() + timedelta(days=1) }}"
          areas:
            - SE3
          currency: SEK
        response_variable: tomorrow_price
    sensor:
      - name: Tomorrow lowest price
        unique_id: se3_tomorrow_low_price
        state: >
          {% set data = namespace(prices=[]) %}
          {% for state in tomorrow_price['SE3'] %}
            {% set data.prices = data.prices + [state.price] %}
          {% endfor %}
          {{min(data.prices)}}
        attributes:
          data: "{{ tomorrow_price['SE3'] }}"

> ```

Reviewer: Nice catch!
